Here's another one that might hit close
to home for many technical folks here.
Let's say you are the Google Maps PM and
you're like, hey, we have a janky API
that, you call this method with this
object shape and you call this one and
it's actually just a post and
there's no body that goes with it.
And we've duct taped this
together over a decade.
None of this sounds familiar
to anybody I know, right?
So let's go and let's unify this and
let's make a v2 of our API.
And let's make it all consistent and
beautiful and lovely.
And it's gonna have a swagger spec and
it's gonna use GRPC.
That's I think those are mutually
exclusive things but I don't care and
blah, blah, blah, right?
Aka what GitHub did when they went to
GraphQL is their public API, right?
That seems like a slam dunk, right?
It's like, all right, we got space.
Let's go make things better for
everybody, right?
It might be.
But let's go back and
think about this as stakeholders.
You have a bunch of people that have
already built a bunch of stuff on
your API.
Right there,
are millions of apps potentially that
are based on the Google Maps API.
If you break it,
you are breaking a lot of people's apps.
Or let's say you even keep it around, now
you either are trading off the stakeholder
internally, we have to now
support two versions of our API.
Or we're basically saying, okay,
we'll try not to break this other one but
we're not gonna fix it, right?
All sudden you're in this kind of
mode of stakeholder management,
you have to think about not just this
potentially golden future you also have to
think about what am I doing to all
the people that care about this.
This is also extremely real to me because
this is basically Stripe's perpetual
problem.
If you build something on Stripe in 2015,
it still works today,
because they never have broken their API.
That means the Stripe API in some
ways is pretty janky, right?
Because they have had
a lot of ideas since 2015.
And basically what they do, they do have
a modern API that is actually much better.
And if you make a call to an old API,
it goes through a translation layer
that goes back to those old APIs and
things like that.
But every team has to maintain every
API that they have ever put out.
It makes Stripe move a little bit slower,
right?
But people don't wanna upgrade their apps.
Particularly think about like money apps,
right?
So you have the Stripe integration, and
if you have this Stripe integration and
it works exactly the way that you
want it to, and it's been tested and
used over for like a decade,
you don't wanna change it.
Why would you wanna change it?
Money is scary, right?
And so if you introduce a new bug or
Stripe introduces a new bug,
you are literally affecting
people's bottom line.
Which is why I think Stripe somewhat
wisely, has basically said,
if you build something in 2015,
we're gonna do everything we
can to make sure that it's continues
to work the way that you expect it to.
Stakeholders, right?
You have to frame it in the sense of,
who is holding the back here
at the end of this,right?
And a lot of companies like GitHub in
that particular case, when they went for
v3, they went to Graph QL.
They basically said, hey, everybody,
you now have to learn Graph QL to
even integrate with GitHub now.
At the time, GitHub was, or sorry,
GraphQL was so hot, and everyone was like,
this is the best, this is the future,
and some years later everyone's like,
maybe it's not, maybe it's not the future.
Maybe we shouldn't build things
like this anymore, right?
And v4 of their API, surprise,
surprise, not GraphQL anymore, right?
So that kind of churn is
exhausting as a developer, right?
And you'll find things that you
don't have to churn as much.
Why do you think WordPress is still so
popular, right?
It's a reliable partner that
you can build things on.
It's awesome.
I will never disparage WordPress
except when I have to work on it, and
then I will disparage it a lot.
God, if I have to think about
the loop one more time,
I swear I'm just gonna pull my hair out.
So every time that you go to approach,
what am I gonna build and
why am I gonna build it, please think
about who you're building it for and
who is not gonna like what you're
gonna build, cuz it's always someone.
And if you cannot think of someone that
is adversely affected by what you're
building, at the very least is
your own team maintaining it,
then you're not thinking about it
thoroughly enough, I would say.
Yeah, Mark.
>> Do you ever anticipate that
developers are gonna go over time and
just kind of change the deadline?
Communicate the deadline
as something further out to
the business versus the developer.
I know this is more of
a project management.
>> Sure, no, but I mean,
it applies to product managers,
cuz we're equally beholden to the timeline
and to delivering things on time.
So, I mean, I think that to rephrase that
question is, do I trust my developers?
I've had the good fortune of working
with awesome developers that I don't
ever question that this person is
intentionally gonna try and slack off.
I don't know what to do about that.
I'm not a taskmaster, right?
I'm not gonna go in there and
sit on them and watch what they do.
Not my style.
And it's honestly,
it's not my particular issue,
that would be an engineering
manager's issue to deal with.
I do push back sometimes when a developer
will say, this is gonna take me X
amount of months, and I'll ask, are you
intentionally is that an overestimation?
Because you're anticipating
something like what?
What's built into your estimation?
And you'll kinda figure out developer
by developer, including myself as,
I'm padding it for these reasons.
And sometimes, I'm padding this because I
don't know how the dependency org is gonna
react, that's valid.
I accept that, or I'm padding this because
I'm worried that I can't deliver on time.
Well, let's try and give it the real
estimation and we'll adjust, right?
There's mechanisms to modify
timelines when we run into issues.
Don't give me the padded one,
give me closer to what you actually
think this is going to take.
Acknowledging that software
estimation is an impossible science.
Or an impossible art, if we're being
really honest about it, right?